content/join.md, before:

---
title: "Join us"
date: "2019-01-02"
---


### For current students at Johns Hopkins

If you are a current Hopkins student and are interested in working with me come by my office any time the door is open and I'll be happy to talk about open projects. I have many new projects that I would be excited to talk to you about. In the mean time, feel free to check out the [projects](../projects/index.html) page for a brief summary of what's going on in the lab! 

If our projects don't seem that interesting to you, I'm also happy to help introduce you to other folks in data science or genomics who might have projects you are more interested in. 

### For prospective students at Johns Hopkins

I mostly supervise students from [Biostatistics](http://www.jhsph.edu/departments/biostatistics/), but am also excited to work with students in any department at JHU. I am not on the admissions committee so I pretty much don't have any say over whether you will get admitted. But if you want to do a Ph.D. at Hopkins Biostat and you: (1) have the serious math chops to get through our program (it is at the top end of rigor among Biostat programs) and (2) have written a cool R package and put it on Github or done an awesome data analysis and posted it on the web, then I want to hear from you. Send me an email to my gmail account with your CV attached, a link to your project, and a one liner about the coolest research project you can think of that relates to anything me or any of my colleagues do. I'll make sure the right people see your application. 

### For prospective postdocs

I am always looking for awesome potential postdocs. There are some positions that I have funded to tackle specific ideas related to our projects. But if you have an interesting idea you'd like to take on, I can probably figure out a way to scrounge up the money to pay for it if you can sell me on it :). 

Here are the minimum things I look for in a postdoc:

* Written at least 1 first author paper 
* Written at least 1 open source software package
* [Problem forward philosophy](http://simplystatistics.org/2013/05/29/what-statistics-should-do-about-big-data-problem-forward-not-solution-backward/)
* Has read about our [projects](../projects/index.html)
* Has at least one idea they want to work on unrelated to their dissertation

If you are interested in doing a postdoc send me an email with your CV, a link to the software package you built, and a short (one paragraph) description of a research project you have imagined working on. 

If you are a grad student who is interested in applying for postdoctoral funding through NSF, NIH, or another funding source and want to work with me, send me an email with the above information and I'll be happy to help you with your application.

Commit message:

Adding links to dasl positions; update CV

content/join.md, after:

---
title: "Join us"
date: "2019-01-02"
---

### Open positions available 

[Research Associate](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LP1BGxFFl_40Ikoou91ZN2MuqU3TrpsklIuLeOLNXAg/edit?usp=sharing) – Faculty position to develop educational content and products for the [Johns Hopkins Data Science Lab](https://jhudatascience.org/) (DaSL) – a group of faculty, postdocs, students, and staff at the [Department of Biostatistics](https://www.jhsph.edu/departments/biostatistics/index.html) at [Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health](https://www.jhsph.edu) (JHSPH) who are focused on developing and distributing educational material focused on data sciences – the number one rated job nationwide. We have multiple positions available to support several ongoing projects that we hope will have a major impact on the data science educational landscape. 

- This candidate will develop educational content for the [Open Case Studies](https://opencasestudies.github.io) (OCS) project – a free educational resource of case studies created for educators to teach students how to effectively analyze data and solve real-world challenges and to move into data science. 
- This candidate will develop educational content for [massive online open courses](https://jhudatascience.org/courses.html) including the Johns Hopkins [Data Science Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/jhu-data-science) on Coursera and [Chromebook Data Science and Chromebook Data Science Plus](http://jhudatascience.org/chromebookdatascience/) - ongoing projects to ensure that data science education is accessible to all educational levels. 

The candidates will develop technology for automating and streamlining content creation using the R programming language and application programming interfaces (APIs). In addition, the candidates will also have the opportunity for outreach for children, including our [data science puppets](https://jhudatascience.org/puppets.html) and in development children’s books around statistics. The candidate will report to DaSL leadership and is not responsible for the direct supervision of staff. For more information, check out the [advertisement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LP1BGxFFl_40Ikoou91ZN2MuqU3TrpsklIuLeOLNXAg/edit?usp=sharing). 



### For current students at Johns Hopkins

If you are a current Hopkins student and are interested in working with me come by my office any time the door is open and I'll be happy to talk about open projects. I have many new projects that I would be excited to talk to you about. In the mean time, feel free to check out the [projects](../projects/index.html) page for a brief summary of what's going on in the lab! 

If our projects don't seem that interesting to you, I'm also happy to help introduce you to other folks in data science or genomics who might have projects you are more interested in. 

### For prospective students at Johns Hopkins

I mostly supervise students from [Biostatistics](http://www.jhsph.edu/departments/biostatistics/), but am also excited to work with students in any department at JHU. I am not on the admissions committee so I pretty much don't have any say over whether you will get admitted. But if you want to do a Ph.D. at Hopkins Biostat and you: (1) have the serious math chops to get through our program (it is at the top end of rigor among Biostat programs) and (2) have written a cool R package and put it on Github or done an awesome data analysis and posted it on the web, then I want to hear from you. Send me an email to my gmail account with your CV attached, a link to your project, and a one liner about the coolest research project you can think of that relates to anything me or any of my colleagues do. I'll make sure the right people see your application. 

### For prospective postdocs

I am always looking for awesome potential postdocs. There are some positions that I have funded to tackle specific ideas related to our projects. But if you have an interesting idea you'd like to take on, I can probably figure out a way to scrounge up the money to pay for it if you can sell me on it :). 

Here are the minimum things I look for in a postdoc:

* Written at least 1 first author paper 
* Written at least 1 open source software package
* [Problem forward philosophy](http://simplystatistics.org/2013/05/29/what-statistics-should-do-about-big-data-problem-forward-not-solution-backward/)
* Has read about our [projects](../projects/index.html)
* Has at least one idea they want to work on unrelated to their dissertation

If you are interested in doing a postdoc send me an email with your CV, a link to the software package you built, and a short (one paragraph) description of a research project you have imagined working on. 

If you are a grad student who is interested in applying for postdoctoral funding through NSF, NIH, or another funding source and want to work with me, send me an email with the above information and I'll be happy to help you with your application.
