content/talks.md, before:

---
title: "Talks and Other Events"
---

### 2020

- Scaling up single-cell data analyses in Bioconductor. [Biological Data Science](https://meetings.cshl.edu/meetings.aspx?meet=DATA&year=20). 2020 Nov 4-7. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. (Virtual due to COVID-19).
- Human Medical Genetics and Genomics Program, University of Colorado (Anschutz Medical Campus). 2020 Oct 22. Denver, CO. USA. (Virtual).
- [Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS) Foundations of Data Science Conference](https://datascience.columbia.edu/files/seasdepts/idse/pdf-files/FODS2020-CFP.pdf). 2020 Oct 18-20. Seattle, WA. USA. (Virtual due to COVID-19).
- [Academic Data Science Alliance (ADSA) Annual Meeting](https://academicdatascience.org/adsa-meetings/annual-meeting). 2020 Oct 14-16. (Virtual due to COVID-19).
- [Setting the Stage for Reproducibility in Single-Cell Data Science](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gouLBEOSgtWdnLSjkn1K8H8dWrfJZdwIqXJtAvU1KJg/edit?usp=sharing). Rigor and Reproducibilty in Cancer Research. Rogel Cancer Center. University of Michigan. 2020 Sept 24. Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (Virtual). 
- [Addressing Public Health Challenges with Statistics, Genomics and Data Science](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12JA73ApG0MWTPmb1e37RMOjS3oiA93cR41Sp6_LexFI/edit?usp=sharing). Annual presentation on my research interests in "Current Topics" courses as part of my participation as a Preceptor in the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology's NCI-supported PhD training program. 
- Panelist on _Celebrating Florence Nightingale’s Bicentenary_. [Joint Statistical Meetings](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2020/). 2020 Aug 1-6. Philadelphia, PA, USA. (Virtual due to COVID-19).
- [Communicating statistics and data science to the masses via Open Case Studies](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wSuRsSwI-uEyiPqtXEW12CBwr5qULK6zO7aPHsUH8T8/edit?usp=sharing). [Joint Statistical Meetings](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2020/). 2020 Aug 1-6. Philadelphia, PA, USA.(Virtual due to COVID-19).
- [Bench pressing single-cell RNA-sequencing imputation methods](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1eD2jz20aDKo-hKFkbp7BRpqt-2d7cqt9Ff_todrL0Zo/edit?usp=sharing). [Bioconductor Conference](http://bioc2020.bioconductor.org). 2020 Jul 29-31. Boston, MA. USA. (Virtual due to COVID-19).
- [Analyzing Genomics Data in R with Bioconductor](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Qq52SMfRkP_MsvhxqjvJXa-33LXVSmA5ovmnlsyx1iQ/edit?usp=sharing). [R-Ladies Riverside](https://www.meetup.com/rladies-riverside/). 2020 Jul 22.
- [Addressing Real-World Challenges through Data Science Education](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10lRcBMdZ_lzWWCW46t1rThJ1kVm7Ip0Yx3UIdicUEAg/edit?usp=sharing). Academic Data Science Alliance (ADSA) Data Science Education special interest group (SIG). 2020 Jul 2.  

<p align="center"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PRSpf1sJsNw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

- Annual Symposium of the Division of Gastroenterology at Johns Hopkins University. 2020 Jun 23. Baltimore, MD. USA. (Postponed to due COVID-19).
- [Mathematical Frameworks for Integrative Analysis of Emerging Biological Data Types](http://www.birs.ca/events/2020/5-day-workshops/20w5197) at Banff International Research Station. 2020 Jun 14-19. (Virtual due to COVID-19). 
- [Using R and data science to improve human health](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TRmPRv4k4aceJbdVQDub4hCXYvIdTeQfDJZfpBu28PQ/edit?usp=sharing). **Keynote presentation** at [The European R Users Meeting](https://2020.erum.io). 2020 June 17-20. Milan, Italy. (Virtual due to COVID-19). Watch a pre-conference interview here: 

<p align="center"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8Fy2oKPFeRE" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

- Symposium on Data Science and Statistics (SDSS). 2020 Jun 3-5. Pittsburgh, PA. USA. (Virtual due to COVID-19). Watch a pre-conference interview here: 

<p align="center"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nyX6c3kLDyM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

- National Cancer Institute (NCI) / Center for Cancer Research (CCR) Bioinformatics Training and Education Program (BTEP) [Distinguished Speakers Seminar Series](https://btep.ccr.cancer.gov/seminar-series/seminar/). 2020 Apr 9. (Postponed to due COVID-19).
- Fast clustering for single-cell RNA-seq data using mini-batch _k_-means. [ENAR Conference](https://enar.org/meetings/spring2020/). 2020 Mar 22-25. Nashville, TN. USA. (Virtual)
- WiDS Conference 2020. US Bureau of Labor Statistics. 2020 Mar 2. Washington, DC. USA.
- [Statistical Genetics and Genomics at Johns Hopkins Biostatistics](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SKY8fEcWmpwaFQCfd2j-Kr7nH4BQ3-Rfhl2WgmPcI3I/edit?usp=sharing). Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. 2020 Feb 21. Baltimore, MD. USA.
- [More (single-cell) data, more (statistical) problems](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ZSkeK_bnYdVbiqN8gt4gouFeXY91DyKSjI922y3GZFY/edit?usp=sharing). Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina Gillings School of Public Health. 2020 Feb 13. Chapel Hill, NC. USA. 
- Panelist on Data Science Education at the [Data Science for Public Health Summit](https://www.mailman.columbia.edu/public-health-now/events/seminars-conferences/data-science-public-health-summit). 2020 Jan 17. Columbia Mailman School of Public Health. New York City, NY. USA.
- [More (single-cell) data, more (statistical) problems](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1o5dCD3zYh6hOrbD6TxMeKVNV8oYw-SmH8MTKewGIhB4/edit?usp=sharing). Department of Embryology, Carnegie Institution for Science. 2020 Jan 6. Baltimore, MD. USA.



### 2019

- [NormJam](https://normjam.github.io): A normalization workshop and jamboree for scRNA-seq data. 2019 Nov 19-20. New York City, NY. USA.
- [Data Science Leadership Summit](https://sites.google.com/msdse.org/datascienceleadership2019). 2019 Nov 7-9. Santa Fe, NM. USA. 
- [Addressing Public Health Challenges through Data Science Education](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1emK1ORCmRaJLYDYwWPGhaqNRY2D8cdem_EIFmCmqS00/edit?usp=sharing). [American Public Health Association Annual Meeting](https://www.apha.org/annualmeeting). 2019 Nov 2-6. Philadelphia, PA. USA.
- [Making data science accessible in the Johns Hopkins Data Science Lab](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1whqrmbkilpZopqfg8MQ6MRJR2PYUAAsbCxwK-eq-HDM/edit?usp=sharing). Mathematics Departments and the Explosive Growth of Computational and Quantitative Offerings in Higher Education. [AMS Annual Mini-conference on Education](http://www.ams.org/meetings/coeminiconference). 2019 Oct 25. Washington, D.C. USA. 
- [Teaching data science through case studies in Public Health](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/teaching-data-science-through-case-studies-in-public-health). Joint Statistical Meeings. 2019 Jul 27-Aug 1. Denver, CO. USA. 
- [`mbkmeans`: fast clustering for single cell data using mini-batch _k_-means](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AlwLGTlc3ZFxY8PLpCZ5cwD3ktQyQqb1V6qub2I8360/edit?usp=sharing). Bioconductor Conference. 2019 Jul 24-27. New York City, NY. USA.
- [Why Statistics Matters: Analysis of Genomics Data](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/why-statistics-matters-in-the-analysis-of-genomics-data). [Practical Genomics Workshop](http://genomics.jhu.edu/workshop.html) at Johns Hopkins University. 2019 June 4-7. Baltimore, MD. USA.
- [Useful Tools for Teaching And Outreach In Data Science](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/useful-tools-for-teaching-and-outreach-in-data-science). Symposium on Data Science and Statistics (SDSS). 2019 May 29-Jun 1. Bellevue, WA. USA.
- [Addressing Open Challenges Data Science Education](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/addressing-open-challenges-in-data-science-education). Department of Statistics and Data Sciences, Smith College. 2019 Apr 18. Northampton, MA. USA.
- Missing Data and Technical Variability in Single-Cell RNA-Sequencing Experiments. ENAR Conference. 2019 Mar 24-27. Philadelphia, PA. USA.
- [Making data science accessible world-wide in the Johns Hopkins Data Science Lab](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/making-data-science-accessible-in-the-johns-hopkins-data-science-lab). Department of Statistics, University of Connecticut. 2019 Feb 27. Storrs, CT. USA.
- Applications of Latent Variables in Identifying Systematic Errors in Genomics. Department of Statistics, Rice University. 2019 Feb 11. Houston, TX. USA.
- [National Human Genome Research Institute’s Genome to Phenotype Strategic Planning Meeting](https://www.genome.gov/27572552/from-genome-to-phenotype--genomic-variation-identification-association-and-function-in-human-health-and-disease/). 2019 Jan 22-24. Rockville, MD, USA
- [Estimating cell type composition in whole blood using differentially methylated regions](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/methylcc-presentation). Department of Statistics, Oregon State University. 2019 Jan 14. Corvallis, OR. USA.

### 2018 

- [Orchestrating Single-Cell RNA-sequencing Analysis with Bioconductor](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/orchestrating-single-cell-rna-sequencing-analysis-with-bioconductor). 
    - **Keynote presentation** at [Bioconductor Asia](https://bioconductor.github.io/BiocAsia/) on 2018 Nov 29 at the University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia. 
    - **Keynote presentation** at [Australian Mathematical Sciences Institute (AMSI) Bioinfosummer](https://bis.amsi.org.au) on 2018 Dec 3-7 at the University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.
- [Analyzing Genomics Data in R with Bioconductor](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/analyzing-genomics-data-in-r-with-bioconductor) at DC R Conference. 2018 Nov 8. Washington D.C., USA.

<p align="center"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l1MQ7x8cn7Y" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

- [Estimating cell type composition in whole blood using differentially methylated regions](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/methylcc-presentation).
Department of Biostatistics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham. 2018 Nov 2. Birmingham, AL. USA.
- Estimating cell type composition in whole blood using differentially methylated regions at the [12th Annual Symposium and Poster Session on Genomics and Bioinformatics at Johns Hopkins University](http://genomics.jhu.edu/symposium.html). 2018 Oct 25. Baltimore, MD. USA.
- [Women in Statistics and Data Science Conference](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/wsds/2018/). Lead a project on building a children's book to highlight women in Statistics and Data Science.
- [Data Science Innovation Lab: Mathematical Challenges of Single Cell Dynamics](https://bigdatau.ini.usc.edu/innovationlab2018). Invited to participate in a five-day workshop with early-career biomedical and quantitative investigators to create collaborations, answering important questions in single cell data.
- [Open challenges in Single-Cell RNA-Sequencing](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2018/onlineprogram/ActivityDetails.cfm?SessionID=215111). Joint Statistical Meetings. 2018 Jul 29-Aug 2. Vancouver, CA.
- Open Challenges in Single-Cell RNA-Sequencing. [Single Cell Data Science: Making Sense of Data from Billions of Single Cells](http://lorentzcenter.nl/lc/web/2018/986/info.php3?wsid=986&venue=Oort). 2018 Jun 4-8. Lorentz Center, Leiden University, Netherlands.
- [Technology-independent estimation of cell type composition using differentially methylated regions](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/methylcc-presentation). Office of Biostatistics Research at NHLBI/NIH. 2018 Apr 24. Bethesda, MD. USA.


### 2017

- Missing Data and Technical Variability in Single-Cell RNA-Sequencing Experiments. [Joint Statistical Meetings](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2017/). 2017 Jul 29-Aug 3. Baltimore, MD, USA.
- Estimating cell type composition in whole blood using differentially methylated regions. [Bioconductor conference](http://bioconductor.org/help/course-materials/2017/BioC2017/). 2017 Jul 26-28. Boston, MA, USA.
- Missing Data and Technical Variability in Single Cell RNA-Sequencing Experiments. [Ascona Workshop 2017: Statistical Challenges in Single Cell Biology](https://www.bsse.ethz.ch/cbg/cbg-news/ascona-2017.html). 2017 Apr 30-May 5. Ascona, Switzerland.
- Setting the Stage for Reproducibility and Replicability in Science. Brandeis University. 2017 Mar 22. Waltham, MA, USA.


### 2016

- [On the widespread and critical impact of systemic bias and batch effects in single-cell RNA-seq data](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/towards-progress-in-batch-effects-and-biases-in-single-cell-rna-seq-data). [Presented](http://hsci.harvard.edu/event/widespread-and-critical-impact-systemic-bias-and-batch-effects-single-cell-rna-seq-data?delta=0) at the [Boston Single-Cell Network Meeting](http://www.singlecellnetwork.org) in March 2016 (Boston, MA, USA), [presented](https://www.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2016/onlineprogram/MainSearchResults.cfm) at the Joint Statistical Meetings Aug 2016 (Chicago, IL, USA), and [presented](https://coursesandconferences.wellcomegenomecampus.org/events/item.aspx?e=596) at the Single-Cell Genomics Conference Sept 2016 (Hinxton, UK). 
- [Batch effects and technical biases in scRNA-Seq data](https://github.com/hms-dbmi/scw/tree/master/scw2016/tutorials/batcheffects). [HSCI Single-Cell Workshop](http://hsci.harvard.edu/event/save-date-single-cell-analysis-workshop). 2016 Nov 29-30. Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
- Transforming the Classroom to Teach Statistics and Data Science with Active Learning. [Women in Statistics and Data Science Conference](http://www.amstat.org/meetings/wsds/2016/). 2016 Oct 20-22. Charlotte, NC, USA.
- [Towards progress in batch effects and biases in single-cell RNA-seq data](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/towards-progress-in-batch-effects-and-biases-in-single-cell-rna-seq-data). 2016 Sept 14-16. Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK.
- On the widespread and critical impact of systemic bias and batch effects in single-cell RNA-seq data. [Joint Statistical Meetings](https://www.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2016/onlineprogram/MainSearchResults.cfm). 2016 Jul 31-Aug 4. Chicago, IL, USA.
- On the widespread and critical impact of systemic bias and batch effects in single-cell RNA-seq data. [Boston Single-Cell Network Meeting](http://hsci.harvard.edu/event/widespread-and-critical-impact-systemic-bias-and-batch-effects-single-cell-rna-seq-data?delta=0). 2016 Mar 15. Boston, MA, USA.


### 2015 

- On the widespread and critical impact of batch effects and systematic bias in single-cell RNA-Seq data (Selected for a Stellar Abstract Award). [PQG Conference: Single-cell Genomics: Technology, Analysis, and Applications](https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/2015-pqg-conference/). 2015 Nov 5-6. Boston, MA, USA.
- [Mozilla Open Science Leadership Summit](https://www.mozillascience.org/open-science-summit-2015). Invited to work with community leaders furthering open practice and open science through creating community events, tools for collaboration and learning resources.
- [Why Statistics Matters in the Analysis of Genomics Data](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/why-statistics-matters-in-the-analysis-of-genomics-data). Presented at the LSU Computational Biology seminar and the LSUConnect event. 2015 Feb 11. Baton Rouge, LA, USA.
<p align="center"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3EVtJPz4kCI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>


### 2014 

- Normalization of DNA methylation and Gene Expression Data in the Context of Global Variation. Bioinformatics Meeting, Division of Immunology, Harvard Medical School. 2014 Sept 18. Boston, MA, USA.
- quantro: When should you use quantile normalization?. Flashlight talk at the [Bioconductor Conference](https://www.bioconductor.org/help/course-materials/2014/BioC2014/). 2014 Jul 30-Aug 1. Boston, MA, USA.
- [ROpenSci Unconference](http://unconf.ropensci.org). Invited to work with over 40 R enthusiasts from industry, academia, non-profits and government on projects supporting open data, open science and data visualization in R. Contributed to R-packages including [explainr](https://github.com/hilaryparker/explainr) and [catsplainr](https://github.com/hilaryparker/catsplainr).


### 2011 

- Modeling Discovery Of Functional SNPs From Genome Scale Data. JSM 2011. Miami, FL, USA.

### 2010 

- Prediction of Missense Mutation Functionality Depends on both the Algorithm and Sequence Alignment Employed. Human Genome Variation Society's Exploring the Functional Consequences of Genomic Variation Meeting. Washington, D.C., USA.

Commit message:

adding link to rladies tunis talk

content/talks.md, after:

---
title: "Talks and Other Events"
---

### 2020

- Addressing Open Challenges in Data Science Education. Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia. Spring 2021. Vancouver, BC. Canada. (Virtual).
- Scaling up single-cell data analyses in Bioconductor. [Biological Data Science](https://meetings.cshl.edu/meetings.aspx?meet=DATA&year=20). 2020 Nov 4-7. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. (Virtual due to COVID-19).
- Human Medical Genetics and Genomics Program, University of Colorado (Anschutz Medical Campus). 2020 Oct 22. Denver, CO. USA. (Virtual).
- [Academic Data Science Alliance (ADSA) Annual Meeting](https://academicdatascience.org/adsa-meetings/annual-meeting). 2020 Oct 14-16. (Virtual due to COVID-19).
- [Introduction to GenomicRanges and plyranges](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1odVZuin9u5iLoW5f3lcjet5WknQr0BwjuH8nrKHY7CM/edit?usp=sharing). [R-Ladies Tunis](https://www.meetup.com/rladies-tunis/events/273485109/). 2020 Oct 6. (Virtual).
- [Setting the Stage for Reproducibility in Single-Cell Data Science](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gouLBEOSgtWdnLSjkn1K8H8dWrfJZdwIqXJtAvU1KJg/edit?usp=sharing). Rigor and Reproducibilty in Cancer Research. Rogel Cancer Center. University of Michigan. 2020 Sept 24. Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (Virtual). 
- [Addressing Public Health Challenges with Statistics, Genomics and Data Science](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12JA73ApG0MWTPmb1e37RMOjS3oiA93cR41Sp6_LexFI/edit?usp=sharing). Annual presentation on my research interests in "Current Topics" courses as part of my participation as a Preceptor in the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology's NCI-supported PhD training program. 
- Panelist on _Celebrating Florence Nightingale’s Bicentenary_. [Joint Statistical Meetings](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2020/). 2020 Aug 1-6. Philadelphia, PA, USA. (Virtual due to COVID-19).
- [Communicating statistics and data science to the masses via Open Case Studies](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wSuRsSwI-uEyiPqtXEW12CBwr5qULK6zO7aPHsUH8T8/edit?usp=sharing). [Joint Statistical Meetings](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2020/). 2020 Aug 1-6. Philadelphia, PA, USA.(Virtual due to COVID-19).
- [Bench pressing single-cell RNA-sequencing imputation methods](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1eD2jz20aDKo-hKFkbp7BRpqt-2d7cqt9Ff_todrL0Zo/edit?usp=sharing). [Bioconductor Conference](http://bioc2020.bioconductor.org). 2020 Jul 29-31. Boston, MA. USA. (Virtual due to COVID-19).
- [Analyzing Genomics Data in R with Bioconductor](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Qq52SMfRkP_MsvhxqjvJXa-33LXVSmA5ovmnlsyx1iQ/edit?usp=sharing). [R-Ladies Riverside](https://www.meetup.com/rladies-riverside/). 2020 Jul 22.
- [Addressing Real-World Challenges through Data Science Education](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10lRcBMdZ_lzWWCW46t1rThJ1kVm7Ip0Yx3UIdicUEAg/edit?usp=sharing). Academic Data Science Alliance (ADSA) Data Science Education special interest group (SIG). 2020 Jul 2.  

<p align="center"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PRSpf1sJsNw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

- Annual Symposium of the Division of Gastroenterology at Johns Hopkins University. 2020 Jun 23. Baltimore, MD. USA. (Postponed to due COVID-19).
- [Mathematical Frameworks for Integrative Analysis of Emerging Biological Data Types](http://www.birs.ca/events/2020/5-day-workshops/20w5197) at Banff International Research Station. 2020 Jun 14-19. (Virtual due to COVID-19). 
- [Using R and data science to improve human health](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TRmPRv4k4aceJbdVQDub4hCXYvIdTeQfDJZfpBu28PQ/edit?usp=sharing). **Keynote presentation** at [The European R Users Meeting](https://2020.erum.io). 2020 June 17-20. Milan, Italy. (Virtual due to COVID-19). Watch a pre-conference interview here: 

<p align="center"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8Fy2oKPFeRE" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

- Symposium on Data Science and Statistics (SDSS). 2020 Jun 3-5. Pittsburgh, PA. USA. (Virtual due to COVID-19). Watch a pre-conference interview here: 

<p align="center"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nyX6c3kLDyM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

- National Cancer Institute (NCI) / Center for Cancer Research (CCR) Bioinformatics Training and Education Program (BTEP) [Distinguished Speakers Seminar Series](https://btep.ccr.cancer.gov/seminar-series/seminar/). 2020 Apr 9. (Postponed to due COVID-19).
- Fast clustering for single-cell RNA-seq data using mini-batch _k_-means. [ENAR Conference](https://enar.org/meetings/spring2020/). 2020 Mar 22-25. Nashville, TN. USA. (Virtual)
- WiDS Conference 2020. US Bureau of Labor Statistics. 2020 Mar 2. Washington, DC. USA.
- [Statistical Genetics and Genomics at Johns Hopkins Biostatistics](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SKY8fEcWmpwaFQCfd2j-Kr7nH4BQ3-Rfhl2WgmPcI3I/edit?usp=sharing). Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. 2020 Feb 21. Baltimore, MD. USA.
- [More (single-cell) data, more (statistical) problems](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ZSkeK_bnYdVbiqN8gt4gouFeXY91DyKSjI922y3GZFY/edit?usp=sharing). Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina Gillings School of Public Health. 2020 Feb 13. Chapel Hill, NC. USA. 
- Panelist on Data Science Education at the [Data Science for Public Health Summit](https://www.mailman.columbia.edu/public-health-now/events/seminars-conferences/data-science-public-health-summit). 2020 Jan 17. Columbia Mailman School of Public Health. New York City, NY. USA.
- [More (single-cell) data, more (statistical) problems](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1o5dCD3zYh6hOrbD6TxMeKVNV8oYw-SmH8MTKewGIhB4/edit?usp=sharing). Department of Embryology, Carnegie Institution for Science. 2020 Jan 6. Baltimore, MD. USA.



### 2019

- [NormJam](https://normjam.github.io): A normalization workshop and jamboree for scRNA-seq data. 2019 Nov 19-20. New York City, NY. USA.
- [Data Science Leadership Summit](https://sites.google.com/msdse.org/datascienceleadership2019). 2019 Nov 7-9. Santa Fe, NM. USA. 
- [Addressing Public Health Challenges through Data Science Education](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1emK1ORCmRaJLYDYwWPGhaqNRY2D8cdem_EIFmCmqS00/edit?usp=sharing). [American Public Health Association Annual Meeting](https://www.apha.org/annualmeeting). 2019 Nov 2-6. Philadelphia, PA. USA.
- [Making data science accessible in the Johns Hopkins Data Science Lab](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1whqrmbkilpZopqfg8MQ6MRJR2PYUAAsbCxwK-eq-HDM/edit?usp=sharing). Mathematics Departments and the Explosive Growth of Computational and Quantitative Offerings in Higher Education. [AMS Annual Mini-conference on Education](http://www.ams.org/meetings/coeminiconference). 2019 Oct 25. Washington, D.C. USA. 
- [Teaching data science through case studies in Public Health](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/teaching-data-science-through-case-studies-in-public-health). Joint Statistical Meeings. 2019 Jul 27-Aug 1. Denver, CO. USA. 
- [`mbkmeans`: fast clustering for single cell data using mini-batch _k_-means](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AlwLGTlc3ZFxY8PLpCZ5cwD3ktQyQqb1V6qub2I8360/edit?usp=sharing). Bioconductor Conference. 2019 Jul 24-27. New York City, NY. USA.
- [Why Statistics Matters: Analysis of Genomics Data](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/why-statistics-matters-in-the-analysis-of-genomics-data). [Practical Genomics Workshop](http://genomics.jhu.edu/workshop.html) at Johns Hopkins University. 2019 June 4-7. Baltimore, MD. USA.
- [Useful Tools for Teaching And Outreach In Data Science](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/useful-tools-for-teaching-and-outreach-in-data-science). Symposium on Data Science and Statistics (SDSS). 2019 May 29-Jun 1. Bellevue, WA. USA.
- [Addressing Open Challenges Data Science Education](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/addressing-open-challenges-in-data-science-education). Department of Statistics and Data Sciences, Smith College. 2019 Apr 18. Northampton, MA. USA.
- Missing Data and Technical Variability in Single-Cell RNA-Sequencing Experiments. ENAR Conference. 2019 Mar 24-27. Philadelphia, PA. USA.
- [Making data science accessible world-wide in the Johns Hopkins Data Science Lab](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/making-data-science-accessible-in-the-johns-hopkins-data-science-lab). Department of Statistics, University of Connecticut. 2019 Feb 27. Storrs, CT. USA.
- Applications of Latent Variables in Identifying Systematic Errors in Genomics. Department of Statistics, Rice University. 2019 Feb 11. Houston, TX. USA.
- [National Human Genome Research Institute’s Genome to Phenotype Strategic Planning Meeting](https://www.genome.gov/27572552/from-genome-to-phenotype--genomic-variation-identification-association-and-function-in-human-health-and-disease/). 2019 Jan 22-24. Rockville, MD, USA
- [Estimating cell type composition in whole blood using differentially methylated regions](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/methylcc-presentation). Department of Statistics, Oregon State University. 2019 Jan 14. Corvallis, OR. USA.

### 2018 

- [Orchestrating Single-Cell RNA-sequencing Analysis with Bioconductor](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/orchestrating-single-cell-rna-sequencing-analysis-with-bioconductor). 
    - **Keynote presentation** at [Bioconductor Asia](https://bioconductor.github.io/BiocAsia/) on 2018 Nov 29 at the University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia. 
    - **Keynote presentation** at [Australian Mathematical Sciences Institute (AMSI) Bioinfosummer](https://bis.amsi.org.au) on 2018 Dec 3-7 at the University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.
- [Analyzing Genomics Data in R with Bioconductor](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/analyzing-genomics-data-in-r-with-bioconductor) at DC R Conference. 2018 Nov 8. Washington D.C., USA.

<p align="center"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l1MQ7x8cn7Y" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

- [Estimating cell type composition in whole blood using differentially methylated regions](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/methylcc-presentation).
Department of Biostatistics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham. 2018 Nov 2. Birmingham, AL. USA.
- Estimating cell type composition in whole blood using differentially methylated regions at the [12th Annual Symposium and Poster Session on Genomics and Bioinformatics at Johns Hopkins University](http://genomics.jhu.edu/symposium.html). 2018 Oct 25. Baltimore, MD. USA.
- [Women in Statistics and Data Science Conference](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/wsds/2018/). Lead a project on building a children's book to highlight women in Statistics and Data Science.
- [Data Science Innovation Lab: Mathematical Challenges of Single Cell Dynamics](https://bigdatau.ini.usc.edu/innovationlab2018). Invited to participate in a five-day workshop with early-career biomedical and quantitative investigators to create collaborations, answering important questions in single cell data.
- [Open challenges in Single-Cell RNA-Sequencing](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2018/onlineprogram/ActivityDetails.cfm?SessionID=215111). Joint Statistical Meetings. 2018 Jul 29-Aug 2. Vancouver, CA.
- Open Challenges in Single-Cell RNA-Sequencing. [Single Cell Data Science: Making Sense of Data from Billions of Single Cells](http://lorentzcenter.nl/lc/web/2018/986/info.php3?wsid=986&venue=Oort). 2018 Jun 4-8. Lorentz Center, Leiden University, Netherlands.
- [Technology-independent estimation of cell type composition using differentially methylated regions](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/methylcc-presentation). Office of Biostatistics Research at NHLBI/NIH. 2018 Apr 24. Bethesda, MD. USA.


### 2017

- Missing Data and Technical Variability in Single-Cell RNA-Sequencing Experiments. [Joint Statistical Meetings](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2017/). 2017 Jul 29-Aug 3. Baltimore, MD, USA.
- Estimating cell type composition in whole blood using differentially methylated regions. [Bioconductor conference](http://bioconductor.org/help/course-materials/2017/BioC2017/). 2017 Jul 26-28. Boston, MA, USA.
- Missing Data and Technical Variability in Single Cell RNA-Sequencing Experiments. [Ascona Workshop 2017: Statistical Challenges in Single Cell Biology](https://www.bsse.ethz.ch/cbg/cbg-news/ascona-2017.html). 2017 Apr 30-May 5. Ascona, Switzerland.
- Setting the Stage for Reproducibility and Replicability in Science. Brandeis University. 2017 Mar 22. Waltham, MA, USA.


### 2016

- [On the widespread and critical impact of systemic bias and batch effects in single-cell RNA-seq data](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/towards-progress-in-batch-effects-and-biases-in-single-cell-rna-seq-data). [Presented](http://hsci.harvard.edu/event/widespread-and-critical-impact-systemic-bias-and-batch-effects-single-cell-rna-seq-data?delta=0) at the [Boston Single-Cell Network Meeting](http://www.singlecellnetwork.org) in March 2016 (Boston, MA, USA), [presented](https://www.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2016/onlineprogram/MainSearchResults.cfm) at the Joint Statistical Meetings Aug 2016 (Chicago, IL, USA), and [presented](https://coursesandconferences.wellcomegenomecampus.org/events/item.aspx?e=596) at the Single-Cell Genomics Conference Sept 2016 (Hinxton, UK). 
- [Batch effects and technical biases in scRNA-Seq data](https://github.com/hms-dbmi/scw/tree/master/scw2016/tutorials/batcheffects). [HSCI Single-Cell Workshop](http://hsci.harvard.edu/event/save-date-single-cell-analysis-workshop). 2016 Nov 29-30. Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
- Transforming the Classroom to Teach Statistics and Data Science with Active Learning. [Women in Statistics and Data Science Conference](http://www.amstat.org/meetings/wsds/2016/). 2016 Oct 20-22. Charlotte, NC, USA.
- [Towards progress in batch effects and biases in single-cell RNA-seq data](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/towards-progress-in-batch-effects-and-biases-in-single-cell-rna-seq-data). 2016 Sept 14-16. Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK.
- On the widespread and critical impact of systemic bias and batch effects in single-cell RNA-seq data. [Joint Statistical Meetings](https://www.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2016/onlineprogram/MainSearchResults.cfm). 2016 Jul 31-Aug 4. Chicago, IL, USA.
- On the widespread and critical impact of systemic bias and batch effects in single-cell RNA-seq data. [Boston Single-Cell Network Meeting](http://hsci.harvard.edu/event/widespread-and-critical-impact-systemic-bias-and-batch-effects-single-cell-rna-seq-data?delta=0). 2016 Mar 15. Boston, MA, USA.


### 2015 

- On the widespread and critical impact of batch effects and systematic bias in single-cell RNA-Seq data (Selected for a Stellar Abstract Award). [PQG Conference: Single-cell Genomics: Technology, Analysis, and Applications](https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/2015-pqg-conference/). 2015 Nov 5-6. Boston, MA, USA.
- [Mozilla Open Science Leadership Summit](https://www.mozillascience.org/open-science-summit-2015). Invited to work with community leaders furthering open practice and open science through creating community events, tools for collaboration and learning resources.
- [Why Statistics Matters in the Analysis of Genomics Data](https://speakerdeck.com/stephaniehicks/why-statistics-matters-in-the-analysis-of-genomics-data). Presented at the LSU Computational Biology seminar and the LSUConnect event. 2015 Feb 11. Baton Rouge, LA, USA.
<p align="center"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3EVtJPz4kCI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>


### 2014 

- Normalization of DNA methylation and Gene Expression Data in the Context of Global Variation. Bioinformatics Meeting, Division of Immunology, Harvard Medical School. 2014 Sept 18. Boston, MA, USA.
- quantro: When should you use quantile normalization?. Flashlight talk at the [Bioconductor Conference](https://www.bioconductor.org/help/course-materials/2014/BioC2014/). 2014 Jul 30-Aug 1. Boston, MA, USA.
- [ROpenSci Unconference](http://unconf.ropensci.org). Invited to work with over 40 R enthusiasts from industry, academia, non-profits and government on projects supporting open data, open science and data visualization in R. Contributed to R-packages including [explainr](https://github.com/hilaryparker/explainr) and [catsplainr](https://github.com/hilaryparker/catsplainr).


### 2011 

- Modeling Discovery Of Functional SNPs From Genome Scale Data. JSM 2011. Miami, FL, USA.

### 2010 

- Prediction of Missense Mutation Functionality Depends on both the Algorithm and Sequence Alignment Employed. Human Genome Variation Society's Exploring the Functional Consequences of Genomic Variation Meeting. Washington, D.C., USA.
